# Deep_learning_for_depression
Serotonin (5-HT) is a neurotransmitter whose regulation plays an important role in neuropsychiatric disorders, especially depression. This is an ubiquitous plague that affect more than 300 million people worldwide and whose etiology is still not well understood. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are the most prescribed treatment method for depression. These psychopharmaceuticals block the uptake of serotonin (via SERT) from the synaptic cleft and restore the ambient concentration of the neurochemical. However, the efficacy of these drugs is not high, working, on average, only 40% of the time and demonstrating how this neurotransmitter, even if majorly involved, cannot explain the whole picture.

Untangle the relationship between serotonin and depression is then fundamental to improve the efficaciousness of pharmacological targets and pave the way to a chemically-based diagnosis of depression. To do so, a reliable and efficient technique, able to detect the concentration of serotonin, is necessary. Currently, there are not test available to help diagnose serotonin imbalance in the brain. Test that use urine, saliva, blood or any other peripheral measures cannot accurately reflect brain levels, since neurotransmitters cannot cross the blood brain barrier.

Electrochemistry is an attractive technique to accurately measure ambient levels via fast-scan controlled-adsorption voltammetry (FSCAV). Carbon-fiber microelectrodes (CFME) cyclically ramps a voltage waveform, specific for the molecule of interest, which results in a redox current (Cyclic Voltammogram(CV)) whose profile gives information about the concentration of the neurotransmitter.  
An open challenge regarding FSCAV is calibration. Currently, the charge under the first peak (faradaic peak) in the redox current profile is used to estimate the sensitivity of each electrode. Several in vitro experiments (post-calibrations) are conducted after in vivo measurements to calculate the fit line between charge and concentration. However, post-calibrations show a nonlinear response and large differences in sensitivity due to the differences in adsorption properties across electrodes. Additionally, an electrode-specific calibration curve is required post experiment, which represents a high cost of materials and chemicals. In the worst-case scenario, the CFM can break after the in vivo experiment, invalidating the signal acquired. Therefore, calibration requires more complex  models that are able to account for the variability between electrodes and nonlinear responses.
Deep learning (DL) had a huge impact on all areas of science in the last decade and outperformed conventional machine learning (ML) techniques. They are algorithms able to ‘learn’ a non-linear and differentiable function that optimally describes the relationship between inputs and outputs. However, the use of DL in electrochemistry, and chemistry in general, is not widespread, since has been limited by two major factors. First of all, DL usually require large, labelled datasets to achieve their task. In addition, it is usually difficult to understand the chemistry principles which underly the results, due to the high-level of abstraction. 
